Now, let's take a different approach for evaluation of Taylor CDs, and this material will be faster
by taking less number of applications.
So we're actually multiplications have done so for evaluation of factorial, four factorial, that is
multiplications are in number and then export four than X has to be multiplied by four times.
So there's a multiplication.
So for each time, we have to perform some number of multiplications.
If you analyze four for degree four, that is power for total harmony.
Multiplication are required.
Let us do the analysis for this storm.
There is no multiplication and here also there is no multiplication.
This system X is square, so X into X, so we need one multiplication and this is one in two.
We need one multiplication.
So total to multiplication there and here x q so this X Cubans into X into X.
So these are two multiplications and this is one and two, two and two, three.
So these are two medications total for multiplication.
Soldat now export four means the total three multiplications will be required in numerator.
And I'm just writing multiplication and here three multiplication will be required to dominate the six.
So it means the next item, it requires eight multiplication and ten multiplication.
So this, this is how we are getting the multiplication.
So if I take Tucumán common, this is one plus two plus three plus four goes on to add ons.
So this is summation of Andong.
So this is an endpoint plus one by two, this one.
And the result is an end to end plus one.
So if you are evaluating Taylor series for any Tom, so then total harmony multiplication is required
and one plus one number of multiplication is required.
So this is nothing but order of degree off and square.
So I can say that in square multiplication required.
Yes, roughly means it's not exact.
You don't have a big exact square is sufficient to understand that these are more the numbers are huge
in size.
So for evaluation of Taylor series, by taking combat arms for each item, some modifications are required
and total multiplication and square can reduce the number of multiplication.
So let us see how we can reduce the number of multiplications.
No show how we can reduce multiplication.
So here I can take that on common.
So let us start.
I will take the power forward.
So I will rewrite that Formula One plus X by one plus X squared by one into two plus execute by one
in two, two and two three plus export four by one in two, two and two, three in two four.
Now in this I can take X as common foreign and denominator as one.
So this is one plus when X is taken as common.
So this X by just one in to do so.
Let us just write the two plus X squared X is sticking as common and one is taken as common.
So this is two to three and plus X is taken as common, so execute by two and two, three and four.
So I have taken first to comment on numerator and denominator.
Both have reduced.
Now let us see if we can take more common values one plus X by one and one plus interest.
I can take X Y Tucumán six by two is there.
So this is X Y two and here it is one plus as X is taken.
So this is just one X and three plus and here X is taken.
So this X squared by three and two forward then one plus X Y one one plus X Y two one plus here I can
take X Y three gunmen and this will be one plus X by four.
So that's how we're taking Corman's.
I have reduced the number of multiplications.
How they are reduced.
Let us see.
See here there is one multiplication and this item is multiplied here.
So this is one multiplication Anderson.
That multiplication.
So for one, two, three, and if you consider this is multiplied by one, so let say four.
So only for multiplication are required.
So if you want up to four to term that degree forward power forward, then only for multiplication are
required.
So the number of multiplication has reduced to order of N it's not square.
Earlier that was a square.
So now it has already used to out of ten.
So yes, by taking commands we can reduce the number of multiplication from quadratic that is square
to linear.
We have reduced the time earlier it was and square.
This is quadratic.
The time was quadratic, now the time is.
Línea, so this is faster.
So one of the is by taking Colman's, we can reduce the number of multiplications.
Now how to write a recursive function for this approach.
Now let us write a recursive function for this.
Now let us observe this form of tela cities and let us see how we can devise a recursive function for
this fund.
So facilities observe.
If I call this recursively by passing X and for that it will be at four, then it will call itself four
three, then two, then one.
What do you observe?
This result has to be multiplied with this one.
Plus one is added and the result is multiplied vertex by two and plus one is harder and the result is
multiplied.
So actually multiplication is done in this form.
Actually multiplication is done in this order.
First X by four, then X by three, then X by four.
So and return in time.
There is nothing.
If you are multiplying and adding one and multiplying on adding one threatening time, there is nothing.
So usually the recursive functions that we have written, they were performing the operations mostly
at returning time.
But here at calling time itself, I should to find out the storm and multiply X by three and add one
so I get the stone then this I should multiply by X by two and add one, then they get the stone.
Then this result should be multiplied by six by one and add one.
So I get the complete result.
So it means when I did for X by four so I should multiply it by one item one.
So actually the processing is done at recording time only.
So, so when the first call is for before calling the next call that is four minus one, that is N minus
one, it should perform the multiplication.
So this is happening at calling time so this can be easily rewritten using loop.
So first let me write down how it can be done using loop, then I will show recursion.
So let's write a function for loop integer E integer X an integer and line this.
I have to start from the stone right this time, so I will dig some variable for holding the results.
So let us take one variable integer as that is initially one note I have to do in each step.
X Y four, multiplied by the result as an added one, and this becomes president and this is multiplied
by X by three plus one, and this becomes a result.
So rather than taking it an S every time, as it should be multiplied by X, by N, whatever the value
of one is right now it is four.
If you start from here, then plus one is added.
And this result should be taken in as only.
So this is an S, so this is step I have to keep on repeating so far how many times four.
And this is greater than zero and N minus.
Witness that song.
So and as right now suppose for then it will become three, then go then one.
So it will get multiplied.
And finally we get the result so we can return this.
So this is a step perform every time.
So if and as a force for it is performed for four times and the results are done.
So this is easily possible using loop and here I have not taken any extra variable, i.e. because whatever
the value of this from there I'm reducing.
So there is no initialization part to semicolon and the condition semicolon and and minus minus.
So if minus four then it will become three, then bood and one and then zero ready to zero.
It will not repeat but it will return this.
S so s is having the result.
Not the same thing I can write using recursion but in recursion.
I have to perform multiplication at the calling time.
So I in time if I have to do then I can take the help of static variable now.
So let us write it with the help of static variable so it will be on the same fashion recursive function.
This is a recursive version X an integer and I need one static variable for storing the sum.
And whose value is one.
Initially this one.
Now if and as a zero minutes then it has reached zero.
Do nothing but return s.
So here also I will write as and what I have to do ls perform this operation for the same operation
and perform as assigned one plus X by N multiplied by as the nexus as it is repeating.
So here call itself again by e x and reduce value of and that is and minus one on here.
I should write on a statement that is written Nachshon.
So already we have discussed in the previous lectures that loops will have just ascending.
There is no descending, but recursion will have ascending and descending.
But this procedure can be performed only in ascending.
So I have taken a static variable and I'm storing the result in that one at closing time itself.
So this is the iterative version and recursive version of a function for evaluation of tailers CDs that
order of any number of multiplication that is reduced the number of multiplications so that solving
the data creates more.
Similarly, there are more cities like Simonides, cities and core cities.
That is your student exercise.
So you have to write down the functions.
So you try to write down those functions.